Add CRAWLER_DIRECTIVES.md and purge crawls documentation (#115)
elastic/crawler: docs/features/CRAWLER_DIRECTIVES.md

# Crawler Directives

> Crawler directives are features that are set up externally that the Open Crawler adheres to.
> These typically require no change to the Open Crawler configuration, and instead changes directly to the webserver or webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crawler directives are external features that the Open Crawler adheres to.
These typically require no change to the Open Crawler configuration; instead, they are set up directly on the webserver or webpage.
```

These techniques are similar to search engine optimization (SEO) techniques used for other web crawlers and robots.
For example, you can embed instructions for the web crawler within your HTML content.
You can also prevent the crawler from following links or indexing any content for certain webpages.
Use these tools to manage webpage discovery and content extraction.

> **Discovery** concerns which web pages and files from crawled domains get indexed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Discovery** concerns which webpages and files from crawled domains get indexed:
```

Reviewer: I prefer the two-word form `web page` (as do most dictionaries), but it's reasonable to go with `webpage` in this context. And almost everywhere else, you use `webpage`, so just going for consistency.

- [Canonical URL link tags](#canonical-url-link-tags)
- [Robots meta tags](#robots-meta-tags)
- [Nofollow links](#nofollow-links) 
- [`robots.txt` files](#robotstxt-files) 
- [Sitemaps](#sitemaps)

**Extraction** concerns how content is indexed and mapped to fields in Elasticsearch documents:

- [Data attributes for inclusion and exclusion](#data-attributes-for-inclusion-and-exclusion) 

## HTML elements and attributes

The following sections describe crawler instructions you can embed within HTML elements and attributes.

### Canonical URL link tags

A canonical URL link tag is an HTML element you can embed within pages that duplicate the content of other pages.
The canonical URL link tag specifies the canonical URL for that content.

> The canonical URL is stored on the document in the url field, while the additional_urls field contains all other URLs where the crawler discovered the same content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The canonical URL is stored on the document in the `url` field, while the `additional_urls` field contains all other URLs where the crawler discovered the same content.
```

> If your site contains pages that duplicate the content of other pages, use canonical URL link tags to explicitly manage which URL is stored in the url field of the indexed document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your site contains pages that duplicate the content of other pages, use canonical URL link tags to explicitly manage which URL is stored in the `url` field of the indexed document.
```

#### Template

```html
<link rel="canonical" href="{CANONICAL_URL}">
```

#### Example

```html
<link rel="canonical" href="https://example.com/categories/dresses/starlet-red-medium">
```

### Robots meta tags

Robots meta tags are HTML elements you can embed within pages to prevent the crawler from following links or indexing content.
These tags are related to [crawl rules](./CRAWL_RULES.md).

#### Template

```html
<meta name="robots" content="{DIRECTIVES}">
```

#### Supported directives

`noindex`

- The web crawler will not index the page
- If you want to index some, but not all, content on a page, see [data attributes for inclusion and exclusion](#data-attributes-for-inclusion-and-exclusion)

`nofollow`

- The web crawler will not follow links from the page
- The directive does not prevent the web crawler from indexing the page

#### Examples

```html
<meta name="robots" content="noindex">
<meta name="robots" content="nofollow">
<meta name="robots" content="noindex, nofollow">
```

### Data attributes for inclusion and exclusion

> Inject HTML data attributes into your web pages to instruct the web crawler to include or exclude particular sections from extracted content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inject HTML data attributes into your webpages to instruct the web crawler to include or exclude particular sections from extracted content.
```

Reviewer: see comment on line 11

For example, use this feature to exclude navigation and footer content when crawling, or to exclude sections of content only intended for screen readers.

These attributes work as follows:

> - For all pages that contain HTML tags with a `data-elastic-include` attribute, the crawler will only index content within those tags
> - For all pages that contain HTML tags with a `data-elastic-exclude` attribute, the crawler will skip those tags from content extraction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For all pages that contain HTML tags with a `data-elastic-include` attribute, the crawler will only index content within those tags.
- For all pages that contain HTML tags with a `data-elastic-exclude` attribute, the crawler will skip those tags from content extraction.
```

Reviewer: Not super important; just making the terminal punctuation consistent within this bulleted list.

>   - You can nest `data-elastic-include` and `data-elastic-exclude` tags, too. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You can nest `data-elastic-include` and `data-elastic-exclude` tags.
```

> - The web crawler will still crawl any links that appear inside excluded sections as long as the configured crawl rules allow them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The web crawler will still crawl any links that appear inside excluded sections, as long as the configured crawl rules allow them.
```

#### Examples

> A simple content exclusion rule example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's a simple content exclusion rule example:
```

```html
<body>
  <p>This is your page content, which will be indexed by the web crawler.
  <div data-elastic-exclude>Content in this div will be excluded from the search index</div>
</body>
```

In this more complex example with nested exclusion and inclusion rules, the web crawler will only extract "test1 test3 test5 test7" from the page.

```html
<body>
  test1
  <div data-elastic-exclude>
    test2
    <p data-elastic-include>
      test3
      <span data-elastic-exclude>
        test4
        <span data-elastic-include>test5</span>
      </span>
    </p>
    test6
  </div>
  test7
</body>
```

### Nofollow links

Nofollow links are HTML links that instruct the crawler to not follow the URL.

> The web crawler will not follow links that include `rel="nofollow"` (i.e. will not add links to the crawl queue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web crawler will not follow links that include `rel="nofollow"` (that is, will not add links to the crawl queue).
```

```

## Server-based configurations

The following sections describe crawler instructions you can include on your webserver.

### `robots.txt` files

> [!TIP]
It is impossible to configure the web crawler to ignore or work around a domain’s `robots.txt` file.
Remember this if you’re crawling a domain you don’t control.

A domain may have a `robots.txt` file.
This is a plain text file that provides instructions to web crawlers.
The instructions within the file, also called directives, communicate which paths within that domain are disallowed (and allowed) for crawling.

You can also use a `robots.txt` file to specify [sitemaps](#sitemaps) for a domain.

Most web crawlers automatically fetch and parse the `robots.txt` file for each domain they crawl.
If you already publish a `robots.txt` file for other web crawlers, be aware the web crawler will fetch this file and honor the directives within it.
You may want to add, remove, or update the `robots.txt` file for each of your domains.

#### Example

To add a `robots.txt` file to the domain `https://shop.example.com`:

1. Determine which paths within the domain you’d like to exclude. 

> 2. Create a `robots.txt` file with the appropriate directives from the [robots exclusion standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots_exclusion_standard), e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a `robots.txt` file with the appropriate directives from the [robots exclusion standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots_exclusion_standard), for example:
```

    ```txt
    User-agent: *
    Disallow: /cart
    Disallow: /login
    Disallow: /account
    ```
3. Publish the file, with filename `robots.txt`, at the root of the domain: `https://shop.example.com/robots.txt`.

The next time the web crawler visits the domain, it will fetch and parse the `robots.txt` file.
The web crawler will crawl only those paths that are allowed by the [crawl rules](./CRAWL_RULES.md) and the directives within the `robots.txt` file for the domain.

> #### Non-standard extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Nonstandard extensions
```

> The Elastic web crawler does not support all [nonstandard extensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots.txt#Nonstandard_extensions) to the robots exclusion standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Elastic web crawler supports some, but not all, [nonstandard extensions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots.txt#Nonstandard_extensions) to the robots exclusion standard:
```

To make your sitemaps discoverable, specify them within `robots.txt` files.

Sitemaps are related to the `seed_urls` configuration field.
You can choose to submit URLs to the web crawler using sitemaps, seed URLs, or a combination of both.

Use sitemaps to inform the web crawler of pages you think are important, or pages that are isolated and not linked from other pages.
However, be aware the web crawler will visit only those pages from the sitemap that are allowed by the domain’s [crawl rules](./CRAWL_RULES.md) and [robots.txt](#robotstxt-files) file directives.

#### Sitemap discovery and management

To add a sitemap to a domain, you can specify it within a `robots.txt` file.
At the start of each crawl, the web crawler fetches and processes each domain’s `robots.txt` file and each sitemap specified within those `robots.txt` files.

#### Sitemap format and technical specification

The [sitemaps standard](https://www.sitemaps.org/index.html) defines the format and technical specification for sitemaps.
Refer to the standard for the required and optional elements, character escaping, and other technical considerations and examples.

> The web crawler does not process optional meta data defined by the standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The web crawler does not process optional metadata defined by the standard.
```

The web crawler extracts a list of URLs from each sitemap and ignores all other information.

There is no guarantee that pages (and their respective linked pages) will be indexed in the order they appear in the sitemap, because crawls are run asynchronously.

Ensure each URL within your sitemap matches the exact domain — here defined as scheme + host + port— for your site.

> Different subdomains (like `www.example.com` and `blog.example.com`), and different schemes (like `http://example.com` and `https://example.com`), require separate sitemaps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different subdomains (like `www.example.com` and `blog.example.com`), and different schemes (like `http://example.com` and `https://example.com`), require separate sitemaps.
```
```suggestion
Different subdomains (like `www.example.com` and `blog.example.com`) and different schemes (like `http://example.com` and `https://example.com`) require separate sitemaps.
```

The web crawler also supports sitemap index files.
Refer to [using sitemap index files](https://www.sitemaps.org/protocol.html#index) within the sitemap standard for sitemap index file details and examples.

#### Manage sitemaps

To add a sitemap to the domain `https://shop.example.com`:

1. Determine which pages within the domain you’d like to include
   - Ensure these paths are allowed by the domain’s crawl rules and the directives within the domain’s `robots.txt` file

> 2. Create a sitemap file with the appropriate elements from the sitemap standard, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a sitemap file with the appropriate elements from the sitemap standard, for example:
```
